.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDD.BLACKLIST 5
.SH NAME
.B ncidd.blacklist
- blacklist file for \fIncidd\fR hangup
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIncidd.blacklist\fR file contains the expressions to match against a
telephone call name or number.
.P
If the hangup option is set and if there is no match in the whitelist file,
a match in the blacklist file will cause \fIncidd\fR to automatically
terminate the call.
.PP
The \fIncidd.blacklist\fR file understands 3 types of lines:
.TP 18
.B blank line:
skip it
.TP
.B comment line:
skip it
.TP
.B expression line:
process it
.PP
A comment line begins with a '#' and is ignored.
A non-comment line is divided into expressions, separated by spaces.
An expression is either a string of non-blank characters
or everything between double quotes.
Multiple expressions on a line are permitted.  Anything after
a '#' on a line is a comment and is ignored.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
Each expression is compared to the caller name and number.
.IP \(bu
Upper and lower case letters are significant.
.IP \(bu
The number must be a string of digits as they appear in
\fI/dev/log/cidcall.log\fR.
.IP \(bu
A leading '1' is required if it is in \fI/dev/log/cidcall.log\fR.
.IP \(bu
A partial name or number can match.
.IP \(bu
A '^' at the beginning an expression means it must match at the start of
a name or number.
.IP \(bu
If an expression is longer than the name or number field it will never match.
.IP \(bu
.SH EXAMPLES
blacklist the unassigned 999 area code with and without a leading 1
.RS 0
	^999    ^1999
.RE
.PP
blacklist "BAD MARKETING":
.RS 0
	"BAD MARKETING"
.RE
.PP
blacklist anything with "MARKETING" in the name:
.RS 0
	MARKETING
.RE
.PP
blacklist a name and a number on one line:
.RS 0
	Ogre 13215551212
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
ncidd.8, ncidd.conf.5, ncidd.alias.5, ncidd.whitelist.5
