.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDSIP 8
.SH NAME
.B ncidsip
- Inject CID info by snooping SIP invites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncidsip\^
[options]
.PP
.I Options:
.PP
.nf
[-D                 | --debug]
[-d <filename>      | --dumpfile <filename>]
[-i <interface>     | --interface <interface>]
[-h                 | --help]
[-l                 | --list]
[-n <host[:port]>   | --ncid <host[:port]>]
[-s <[host][:port]> | --sip <[host][:port]>]
[-p <filename>      | --pidfile <filename>]
[-t                 | --test]
[-u                 | --usage]
[-V                 | --version]
[-v                 | --verbose]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Snoops SIP Invites via libpcap and injects the caller id information
found to the NCID server specified.  Uses Net::Pcap to interface with
the libpcap library and snoops only udp traffic on the specified SIP
host and port.
.PP
The configuration file for \fIncidsip\fR is /etc/ncid/ncidsip.conf.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -s <[host][:port]> | --sip=<[host][:port]>
Specifies the hostname of the SIP device to snoop.  You may also specify
the UDP port by suffixing the hostname with :<port>, or if no hostname
is wanted, just :<port>.  If you do not specify a host, it defaults to
the network interface.  If you do not specify a port, it defaults to
<5061> (Vonage default).  Other Vonage ports are 5060 and 10000.  The
new Vonage default appears to be <10000>.
.TP
.B -n <host[:port]> | --ncid=<host[:port]>
Specifies the NCID server to connect to.  Port may be specified by
suffixing the hostname with :<port>.  By default it will connect to
port 3333 on "localhost".
.TP
.B -i <interface> | --interface=<interface>
Specifies the network interface to snoop on.  If this is not specified
then libpcap will pick a network interface.  This will generally be
the first Ethernet interface found.
.TP
.B -p <filename> | --pidfile=<filename>
Specifies the pidfile name to write.
Set to \fI/var/run/ncidsip.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as a service.
The program will still run if it does not have permission to write a pidfile.
There is no default, if pidfile is not set, no pid file will be used.
.TP
.B -h | --help
Prints this help
.TP
.B -D | --debug
Display the payload of all packets that matched the libpcap filter.
.TP
.B -d <filename> | --dumpfile <filename>
Read packets from a libpcap capture file instead of the network.
Mostly only useful for development purposes.
.TP
.B -u | --usage
Prints this help
.TP
.B -V | --version
Displays the version
.TP
.B -v | --verbose
Displays status.  Use this option to run interactive.
.TP
.B -l | --listdevs
Returns a list of all network device names that can be used.
.TP
.B -t | --test
Test for SIP packets.  This option is used to check if SIP packets
exist without starting the NCID server.  It will display the Caller
ID line generated when a call comes in, and a CANCEL line if cancel
was generated.
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/ncidsip.conf
.SH CID MESSAGE FORMAT
.nf
CID: ###DATEmmddhhss...LINEidentifier...NMBRnumber...NAMEwords+++
.fi
.SS Example
.nf
CID: ###DATE05311233...LINE1122...NMBR13215551212...NAMEBig John+++
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# run ncidsip as root and view status:
ncidsip -v

# run ncidsip as root and list all network device names:
ncidsip --listdevs

# run ncidsip as root and view SIP packets:
ncidsip --debug

# run sip from the init file at boot:
ncidsip
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ncidsip.conf.5, sip2ncid.8, ncidd.8, ncid2ncid.1, yac2ncid.1,
ncidrotate.1
