.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCID2NCID 8
.SH NAME
.B ncid2ncid
- Multiple NCID servers to a single NCID server gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncid2ncid
[options]
.PP
.I Options:
.PP
.nf
[-C <filename>      | --config <filename>]
[-D                 | --debug]
[-f <[host][:port]> | --fromhost <[host][:port>]
[-h                 | --help]
[-L <filename>      | --logfile <filename>]
[-t <[host][:port]> | --tohost <[host][:port>]
[-P <filename>      | --pidfile <filename>]
[-u                 | --usage]
[-V                 | --version]
[-v <1-9>           | --verbose <1-9>]
[-W <1/0>           | --warn <1/0>]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This gateway obtains the current Caller ID or message from  one or more
NCID servers, called sending servers, and inputs them into another
NCID server called a receiving server.
Line labels are used to distinguish the different phone calls.
.PP
There can be up to 4 sending servers, but the first sending server
must be configured by either the command line or the configuration
file.  The receiving server has a default and may not need to be
configured.
.PP
If a sending server disconnects, the gateway will keep trying to
reconnect until it either succeeds or is terminated.
The gateway will send a disconnect message to the receiving server
if a sending server disconnects,  and it will send a reconnect
message to the receiving server if it reconnects.
.PP
The log file is /var/log/ncid2ncid.log.
.PP
If a pid file is given, usually \fI/var/run/ncid2ncid.pid\fR, then
a pid file used to store the process ID.
.PP
The configuration file for \fIncid2ncid\fR is /etc/ncid/ncid2ncid.conf.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -C <filename> | --config <filename>
Configuration file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/ncid2ncid.conf
.TP
.B -D | --debug
Debug mode, \fIncid2ncid\fR stays attached to the terminal and displays
all messages that go into the log file.
.TP
.B -f <fromhost[:fromport]>
Specifies the first sending NCID server.
It sends the Caller ID and messages to another NCID server.
Port may be specified by suffixing the hostname with :<port>.
Input must be <host> or <host:port>.
.br
Default: :3333
.TP
.B -h | --help
Prints this help
.TP
.B -L <filename> | --logfile=<filename>
Specifies the logfile name to use.  The logfile must exist before it is used.
.br
Default: /var/log/ncid2ncid.log
.TP
.B -t <[host][:port]> | --ncid=<[host][:port]>
Specifies the receiving NCID server.  It receives Caller ID and messages
from another NCID server.  Port may be specified by suffixing the
hostname with :<port>.  Input can be <host> or <:port> or <host:port>
.br
Default: localhost:3333
.TP
.B -P <filename> | --pidfile=<filename>
Specifies the pidfile name to write.
Set to \fI/var/run/ncidd.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as a service.
The program will still run if it does not have permission to write a pidfile.
There is no default.  If pidfile is not set, no pid file will be used.
Prints this help
.TP
.B -V | --version
Displays the version
.TP
.B -v <1-9> | --verbose <1-9>
Verbose mode. Send information into the logfile and display information
for the -D  option.  Set a higher number for more information.
LEVEL2 will give a warning every time it fails to connect with a NCID server.
LEVEL8 will print the logfiles from every server, and
LEVEL9 will add the socket of the received logfile.
.br
To debug, try: verbose = 2
.br
Default: verbose = 1
.TP
.B -W <0/1> | --warn <0/1>
Send server disconnected or server reconnected messages to clients.
.br
Default: warn = 0
.SH EXAMPLES
Forward Caller ID information or message from localhost:3334 to localhost:3333
.RS 0
    ncid2ncid --fromhost localhost:3334
.RE
.PP
Forward Caller ID information or message from localhost:3334 to localhost:3333
in debug mode using verbose level 1.
.RS 0
    ncid2ncid -D -f localhost:3334
.RE
.PP
Forward Caller ID information or message from localhost:3334 to localhost:3333
in debug mode and display all logfiles.
.RS 0
    ncid2ncid -Dv8 -f localhost:3334
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/ncid2ncid.conf
.br
/var/run/ncid2ncid.pid
.br
/var/log/ncid2ncid.log
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
    Return Code    Meaning
    -----------    -------
         0         Successful
      -100         Usage
      -101         Invalid port number
      -104         Configuration file error
      -107         Invalid number
      -108         Missing sending host 1
      -110         PID file already exists
        -?         System error
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ncid2ncid.conf.5 ncidd.8, ncidd.conf.5 ncidd.alias.5, ncidd.blacklist
