.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCID 1
.SH NAME
.B ncid
- Network Caller ID Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncid\^
[options] [arguments]
.PP
.B tivocid\^
[options] [arguments]
.PP
.B tivoncid\^
[options] [arguments]
.PP
.I Options:\^
.PP
.nf
[--no-gui]
[--alt-date               | -A]
[--delay <seconds>        | -D <seconds>]
[--help                   | -h]
[--noexit                 | -X]
[--pidfile <file name>    | -p <file name>]
[--PopupTime <seconds>    | -t <seconds>]
[--program <program name> | -P <program name>]
[--ring <count>           | -r <count>]
[--tivo                   | -T]
[--verbose                | -v]
[--version                | -V]
.fi
.PP
.I Arguments:\^
.PP
.nf
[IP_ADDRESS | HOSTNAME]
[PORT_NUMBER]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBncid\fR client
displays Caller ID information sent to it by the NCID server.
In the default GUI mode, if the server is configured to send the
Call Log, it will load the call log in the call history window at
startup.  The history window is then updated by \fIncid\fR whenever
a call is received.
.PP
The size of the client window at startup is controlled by the
the \fIncid.conf\fR file.  The user can resize the window, but
there is a minimum size restriction.
.PP
The history window displays one line per call or message.  Each
line line starts with a call label.  There are three types of
calls and a message that can be displayed:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B CID:
Incoming Call
.TP
.B OUT:
Outgoing Call
.TP
.B HUP:
Blacklisted Call Hangup
.TP
.B MSG:
User or NCID message
.PD
.PP
The \fBncid\fR client
also has a message window that will send a single line message
to the server which, in turn, will send it to all connected clients.
.PP
The \fBncid\fR client
runs on Linux and Windows 98, ME, XP, 2000, NT and Mac OS X.  In the 
GUI mode, it will pop up, and go on top whenever a call comes in.
In addition, it will display itself on whatever desktop is active in 
Linux.  If \fIncid\fR is given the --no-gui option, it will run
without a GUI.
.PP
If \fIncid\fR is given the --program <module> option, it will
output to either a external program or output module.  The
.B ncid
client can be configured to call any one module.  It cannot call
multiple modules, but multiple clients can be used, each calling
a different output module.
.PP
If \fIncid\fR is named \fItivocid\fR, it will start in a no-gui mode
and output to a external program called \fIout2osd\fR which displays
the Caller ID on a TV using a TiVo.
.PP
If \fIncid\fR is named \fItivoncid\fR, it will start in a no-gui mode
and output to a module called \fIncid-tivo\fR which displays
the Caller ID on a TV using a TiVo.  This option uses the TiVo
program, \fItext2osd\fR, instead of \fIout2osd\fR.
.PP
If \fIncid\fR is configured to output to a external program, it will
test for it, and if it is not found, or if it is not executable,
it will terminate with a error message.
.PP
The configuration file for \fIncid\fR is /etc/ncid/ncid.conf.
.PP
The distributed output modules are listed in the ncid-modules man page,
can be customized as needed in the /etc/ncid/conf.d/ncid-<name>.conf files.
.PP
Whenever the server connection is broken, \fIncid\fR will normally try
to reconnect once a minute.  It provides a visual record of the countdown
and number of tries.
If the delay between attempts is set to
zero seconds, \fIncid\fR will not attempt a reconnect.
.PP
The file menu provides three menu items in the GUI mode:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B reconnect
provides an immediate reconnect and a reload of the call log file.
This provides a way to synchronize \fIncid\fR with the server call log in
the event of a network problem.
.TP
.B clear
clears the call log
.TP
.B quit
terminates \fIncid\fR.
.PD
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PD
.TP
.B --no-gui
Do not display CID information using a GUI.
.IP
Default: display CID using a GUI, unless called as \fBtivocid\fR
or \fBtivoncid\fR.
.TP
.B --alt-date | -A
Display the date in a alternate format.
Assuming the date separator is a "/",
the date is displayed as dd/mm/yyyy.
.IP
Default: display the date as mm/dd/yyyy
.TP
.B --delay SECONDS | -D SECONDS
Delay SECONDS between server connection attempts if SECONDS > 0.
.br
Only one attempt to connect to server if SECONDS = 0.
.IP
Default: 60 seconds
.TP
.B --help | -h
Display usage.
.TP
.B --noexit | -X
Configure ncid to to ignore the close window button.
.TP
.B --pidfile | -p
Name of PID file to create.
Set to \fI/var/run/ncid.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as a service.
Set to \fI/var/run/OUTPUTMODULE.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as
a service and when using a output module.
There is no default.  If pidfile is not set, no pid file will be used.
.TP
.B --program PROGRAM | -P PROGRAM
Output the Caller ID information to the external program or output module.
PROGRAM is the name of the output module (program) to use.
The selected module is sent all calls and messages.
.IP
Default module PATH: /usr/share/ncid
.TP
.B --ring count | -r count
Call output module on specific ring count.
.br
All count values: -9 -2 -1 0 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.IP
For modems that indicate RING, count is: -9 0 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.br
A count of -9 indicates call on each ring.
.br
A count of 0 indicates call when ringing stops.
.br
A count of 1 should never be used, Caller ID is between 1 and 2.
.br
A count between 2-9 indicates call on that ring number.
.br
A count greater than 9 is not useful.
.IP
For VoIP, using a SIP or wc2ncid gateway, count is: -2 -1
.br
A count of -1 indicates call on hangup with no answer.
.br
A count of -2 indicates call on hangup after answer.
.IP
Default: output module called as soon as CID received
.TP
.B --Tivo | -T
This option is for a TiVo using out2osd or text2osd
.br
Changes output to 2 lines: name number line.
.IP
Default output is 5 lines: date time number name line.
.TP
.B --PopupTime seconds | -t seconds
Time for the popup to stay on top of all windows.
Range is 1 second to 99 seconds.
.IP
Default popup time os 5 seconds.
.TP
.B --verbose | -v
Display formatted CID information, including CID log file.
.IP
Default: silent
.TP
.B --version | -V
Display version and quit.
.PD
.SS "Arguments"
.PD
.TP 30
.B IP_ADDRESS | HOSTNAME
Set the IP Address.
.IP
Default: 127.0.0.1 (localhost)
.TP
.B PORT_NUMBER
Set the port number.
.IP
Default: 3333
.PD
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/*
.br
/usr/share/ncid/*
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Display the date as dd/mm/yyyy
ncid --alt-date

# run ncid in a terminal window, server on remote host
ncid --no-gui tardis.drwho.home

# only speak Caller ID
ncid --no-gui --program ncid-speak

# send CID output to GUI and speak it
ncid --program /usr/local/bin/ncid-speak

# send CID output to a cell phone
ncid --no-gui --program ncid-page

# run ncid on a TiVo using out2osd, server on remote host
tivocid 192.168.0.1
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ncidd.8, sip2ncid.8,
ncid2ncid.1, ncidrotate.1, yac2ncid.1,
ncid-initmodem.1,
ncid-kpopup.1,
ncid-mythtv.1,
ncid-notify.1,
ncid-page.1,
ncid-samba.1,
ncid-skel.1,
ncid-speak.1,
ncid-yac.1,
ncid.conf.5 ,
ncidtools.7
