.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDMODULES 1
.SH NAME
.B ncid-initmodem
- use ncidd to reinitialize modem to Caller ID mode
.PP
.B ncid-kpopup
- popup Caller ID using KDE
.PP
.B ncid-page
- send Caller ID to a pager or cell phone using mail
.PP
.B ncid-samba
- send Caller ID to samba to create a popup
.PP
.B ncid-speak
- send Caller ID to a text-to-speech program
.PP
.B ncid-mythtv
- display Caller ID on MythTV using mythtvosd
.PP
.B ncid-skel
- display Caller ID on stdout in a terminal window
.PP
.B ncid-tivo
- display Caller ID on TiVo using text2osd
.PP
.B ncid-yac
- Send Caller ID to YAC listeners
.SH SYNOPSIS
ncid --no-gui --program
.B ncid-initmodem
.PP
ncid --no-gui --program
.B ncid-kpopup
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] [--ring #] --program
.B ncid-page
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] --program
.B ncid-samba
.PP
ncid --no-gui --program
.B ncid-speak
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] --program
.B ncid-mythtv
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] --program
.B ncid-skel
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] --program
.B ncid-tivo
.PP
ncid --no-gui [--message] --program
.B ncid-yac
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are ncid output modules and are normally located in the
.BR /usr/share/ncid
directory.
.PP
The client,
.BR ncid ,
can be configured to call any one module.  It cannot call multiple modules,
but multiple clients can be used, each calling a different output module.
.PP
The
.B ncid-initmodem
output module re-initializes the modem obtaining the Caller ID
for the server.  It can only be used if the modem supports Caller ID and
sends "RING" at each ringing signal.  If the server indicates a non-CID
call, ncid-initmodem will cause ncidd to re-initialize the modem for CID.
Never use this module with a modem that does not support Caller ID.  The
module can be used with TiVo modems that drop out of Caller ID mode.
.PP
The
.B ncid-kpopup
output module is a KDE GUI application.  When a telephone call is
received, it pops up a window.  It can be configured to also speak
the Caller ID using kmix and festival.
.PP
The
.B ncid-mythtv
output module is a MythTV display program.  It displays the Caller ID and
can be configured to display messages.
.PP
The
.B ncid-page
output module is used to send a call message to a cell phone, pager,
or email address.  It normally sends the message as soon as the Caller ID
is received.  It can be configured to wait until a specific number of rings
before sending the message when using a modem that indicates RING, or it
can send the message if the call was unanswered or at the completion of
the call when using a SIP gateway.  The module requires \fIPageTo\fR
in \fIncidmodules.conf\fR to be set to the SMS gateway for your cell phone
carrier.
.PP
The
.B ncid-samba
output module is used to send the Caller ID to Windows.  It can also
be configured to send messages.
.PP
The
.B ncid-skel
output module is used as a template for writing
a shell script output module.  All it does is send the Caller ID
data to standard output.  This makes it useful for troubleshooting.
.PP
The
.B ncid-speak
output module is used speak the Caller ID using festival.
.PP
The
.B ncid-tivo
output module is used to display the Called ID on a TiVo.  It can also
be configured to display messages.
.PP
The
.B ncid-yac
output module is used to send the Called ID and messages to YAC listeners.
.PP
Each output module can be independently configured using the module
configuration file:
.I ncidmodules.conf
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
Before using a module, review \fIncidmodules.conf\fR to see if the
module has a variable that must be configured.  The \fIncid-page\fR
modules requires the \fIPageTo\fR variable to be set.
.PP
ncid command line options to call ncid-page at ring number 4
.RS 0
    ncid --no-gui --program ncid-page --ring 4
.RE
.PP
Messages are normally excluded, to include messages:
.RS 0
    ncid --no-gui --message --program ncid-page --ring 4
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/ncidmodules.conf
.br
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_carriers_providing_SMS_transit
.SH SEE ALSO
ncid.1,
ncidmodules.conf.5,
ncidd.8
