.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCID.CONF 5
.SH NAME
.B ncid.conf
- ncid configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIncid.conf\fR file contains the configuration information for
\fIncid\fR, the Network Caller ID Client.
.PP
The \fIncid.conf\fR file is a tcl/tk configuration file used to set options.
.PP
The \fIncid.conf\fR file understands 3 types of lines:
.RS
.TP 16
.B blank line
ignored
.TP
.B comment line
beginning with '#' and is ignored
.TP
.B shell variable
set to a value, for example: foo=bar
.RE
.PP
See the ncid.conf file for a complete list of variables to set and
what the default values are.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set ncid to use the page output module:
.RS 0
	set ProgName     \fIncid-page\fR
.RE
.PP
Set ncid to format its number output for the US to not include the 1.
This option requires the \fBignore1\fR server option to also be set.
The display will be XXX-XXX-XXXX instead of 1-XXX-XXX-XXXX:
.RS 0
    set NoOne       1
.RE
.PP
Set ncid to format its number output display for Sweden.
The display will be 0X-XXXXXXXX, 0XX-XXXXXXX, 0XXX-XXXXX, etc:
.RS 0
    set Country     "SE"
.RE
.PP
Set ncid to format its date output in alternate form.
Assuming the date separator is a "/", the display will be DD/MM/YYYY:
.RS 0
    set AltDate     1
.RE
.PP
Set ncid to format its date output with hyphen (-) as separator.
The display will be MM-DD-YYYY.
If the date is in alternate form, the display will be DD-MM-YYYY:
.RS 0
    set DateSepar     "-"
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
ncid.1, lcdncid.1, out2osd.1,
ncidd.alias.5, ncidd.conf.5,
ncidtools.7,
ncidd.8
