.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDMODULES.CONF 5
.SH NAME
.B ncidmodules.conf
- ncid module configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIncidmodules.conf\fR file contains the configuration information for
a \fIncid\fR, output module and its init or rc file.
Use \fIncidmodules.conf\fR to to configure ncid for a particular output
module, but use \fIncid.conf\fR to configure ncid every time it is started.
For example, use \fIncid.conf\fR to configure ncid for the server address,
but use \fIncidmodules.conf\fR to configure ncid to for ncid-page.
.PP
The \fIncidmodules.conf\fR file is used to set options for:
.RS
.I ncid-hangup
.br
.I ncid-initmodem
.br
.I ncid-kpopup
.br
.I ncid-mythtv
.br
.I ncid-page
.br
.I ncid-samba
.br
.I ncid-speak
.br
.I ncid-tivo
.br
.I ncid-yac
.RE
.PP
The \fIncidmodules.conf\fR file understands 3 types of lines:
.TP
.B blank line
ignored
.TP
.B comment line, beginning with '#'
ignored
.TP
.B shell variable set lines.
.PP
The \fIncidmodules.conf\fR file has a separate section for each module
and describes each shell variable that can be configured.  Some modules,
like ncid-page and ncid-samba must be configured before use.  Other
modules may need to be configured or not require any configuration.
.SH EXAMPLES
Configure the email address for ncid-page in ncidmodules.conf.
.RS 0
	PageTo=<cellphone_number@carrier_Internet_address>
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/ncidmodules.conf
.br
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_carriers_providing_SMS_transit
.SH SEE ALSO
ncid.1, ncidtools.1, lcdncid.1, out2osd.1, ncidd.8 ncidmodules.1
