.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDD 8
.SH NAME
.B ncidd
- Network Caller ID Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncidd\^
[options]
.PP
.I Options:
.PP
.nf
[-A <file>       | --alias <aliasfile>]
[-B <file>       | --blacklist <file>]
[-C <file>       | --config <configfile>]
[-c <file>       | --cidlog <logfile>]
[-D              | --debug]
[-d <file>       | --datalog <logfile>]
[-e <identifier> | --lineid <identifier>]
[-g <0|1>        | --gencid <0|1>]
[-H <0|1>        | --hangup <0|1>]
[-h              | --help]
[-I <modemstr>   | --initstr <modemstr>]
[-i <cidstr>     | --initcid <cidstr>]
[-L <file>       | --logfile <logfile>]
[-l <file>       | --lockfile <lockfile>]
[-M <MaxBytes>   | --cidlogmax <MaxBytes>]
[-N <0|1>        | --noserial <0|1>]
[-n <0|1>        | --nomodem <0|1>]
[-P <pidfile>    | --pidfile <pidfile>]
[-p <portnumber> | --port <portnumber>]
[-S <0|1>        | --ttyclocal <0|1]
[-s <datatype>   | --send <datatype>]
[-T <ttyspeed>   | --ttyspeed <ttyspeed>]
[-t <ttyport>    | --ttyport <ttyport>]
[-V              | --version]
[-v <1-9>        | --verbose <1-9>]
[-W <file>       | --whitelist <file>]
[--osx-launchd]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBncidd\fR server collects Caller ID data from:
.PP
.nf
    - a modem or CID device on a telephone line
    - a CID gateway on the network
    - or both
.fi
.PP
It formats the data on a single text line, and then sends it
to one or more
\fBNetwork Caller ID\fR (\fBNCID\fR)
clients over TCP/IP.
The \fBncidd\fR server
also allows an alias for the number, an alias for the name,
and an alias for the telephone line identifier.
.PP
The telephone company limits names to 15 upper case characters,
so by using the alias function, you can display the name as you
would like to view it, or correct a name that was truncated.
You can even change or mask a telephone number.
.PP
The leading 1 from a telephone call is not included in an alias definition
if the \fBignore1\fR option is set in the configuration file.
.PP
The \fBsend cidinfo\fR option configures \FBncidd\fR
to send a CIDINFO line to clients at each ring and when ringing stops.
It contains a telephone LINE label and a RING indicator.
.PP
If the Caller ID is obtained from a modem, and the modem supports it,
the server will include a ring count in each CIDINFO line.
When ringing stops, the ring count will be zero.
This allows, for example, a client to send the call information
to a pager or cell phone on a specific ring count.  If the ring count
is not reached, it is assumed the phone was answered and there is no
need to send a page or cell phone notification.

If ncidd is using a modem that indicates ring but not Caller ID, ncidd
can handle calls without Caller ID by generating call data on ring
number 2 and send it to the connect clients.  The number will be "RING"
and the name will be "No Caller ID".  This feature is on by default.

If the Caller ID is obtained from a Gateway, the CIDINFO line may be sent
at the beginning and end of a call.  At the end of a call, RING
indicates either \fIHangup Without Answer\fR or \fIHangup after Answer\fR
This allows a cell phone or pager to receive a message only if the phone
was not answered.

If the Caller ID is obtained from a Gateway that supports outgoing
calls, ncidd will send outgoing call text lines to the clients.

If the Caller ID is obtained from a Gateway that supports automatic
hangup, ncidd will send hangup call text lines to the clients.

If the \fBhangup\fR option is configured, ncidd will automatically hangup the
call and send hangup call text lines to the clients.
.PP
A client can send \fBncidd\fR a text message.  The text message
is then send to all connected clients, including the one that sent it.
.PP
Gateways send \fBncidd\fR a \fICALL text line\fR.  The \fICALL text line\fR
is either a incoming call (CID), a outgoing call (OUT), a hangup (HUP), or
a message (MSG).  Gateways are normally used in place of a modem, but can
also be used with a modem connected to ncidd.
.PP
Gateways also send \fBncidd\fR \fICALLINFO text lines\fR.
A SIP gateway will send a CALLINFO line when it receives a CANCEL or
BYE command.  The server then sends a ring count of -1 to its clients
to indicate a hangup with no answer.
.PP
The NCID gateway sends \fBncidd\fR CID and CIDINFO text lines instead
of the normal gateway CALL and CALLINFO lines which need conversion.
.PP
When \fBncidd\fR receives a SIGHUP signal, it reloads the alias
file.  If the hangup option is set, \fBncidd\fR also reloads
the blacklist and whitelist files.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PD 0
.TP
.B -A <file> | --alias <file>
Alias file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/ncidd.alias
.TP
.B -B <file> | --blacklist <file>
Blacklist file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/ncidd.blacklist
.TP
.B -C <file> | --config <file>
Config file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/ncidd.conf
.TP
.B -c <file> | --cidlog <file>
Call log data file.
.br
Default: /var/log/cidcall.log
.TP
.B -D | --debug
Debug mode, \fIncidd\fR stays attached to the terminal and displays
all messages that go into the log file.
.TP
.B -d <file> | --datalog <file>
Data log data file, usually from a modem.
.br
Default: /var/log/datalog.log
.TP
.B -e <identifier> | --lineid <identifier>
The telephone line identifier is for a modem.  It is normally 1 to 4
characters.  The default indicator is not displayed, but for one POTS
line, you could change it to
.IR POTS .
For multiple lines you should use a identifier.
You could change it to the 4 digit extension for an exchange.
For example, if the telephone number is 321-555-1212 the identifier
would be 1212.
.br
Default: -
.TP
.B -g <0|1> | --gencid <0|1>
Generate a generic Caller ID at ring 2 if one is not received
from the modem either because the telco is not sending it or
because the modem does not support it.
The generic Caller ID generated uses "RING" for the number
and "No Caller ID" for the name.
.br
Default: gencid = 1
.TP
.B -H <0|1> | --hangup <0|1>
Automatically hangup up a telephone if the caller name or number is in
the ncidd.blacklist file.  A hangup text line is sent to the clients.
.br
Default: hangup = 0
.TP
.B -h | --help
Display a help message.
.TP
.B -I "string" | --initstr "string"
Modem initialization string
.br
Default: ATE1V1Q0
.TP
.B -i "string" | --initcid "string"
CID initialization string
.br
Default: AT+VCID=1
.br
if it fails: AT#CID=1
.TP
.B -L <file> | --logfile <file>
Server logfile.
.br
Default: /var/log/ncidd.log
.TP
.B -l <file> | --lockfile <file>
Modem lockfile.
.br
Default: /var/lock/LCK..modem
.TP
.B -M <MaxBytes> | --cidlogmax <MaxBytes>
Set the maximum CID call log file size in bytes.
.br
Maximum size is 100000000
.br
Default: cidlogmax = 110000
.TP
.B -N <0|1> | --noserial <0|1>
serial device (0) or no serial device (1)
.br
Default: noserial = 0
.TP
.B -n <0|1> | --nomodem <0|1>
modem (0) or no modem (1)
.br
Default: nomodem = 0
.TP
.B -P <pidfile> | --pidfile <pidfile>
Server PID file.
Set to \fI/var/run/ncidd.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as a service.
The program will still run if it does not have permission to write a pidfile.
There is no default.  If pidfile is not set, no pid file will be used.
.TP
.B -p <port> | --port <port>
Server port.
.br
Default: 3333
.TP
.B -S <0|1> | --ttyclocal <0|1>
Enable (0) or disable (1) modem control signals.
.br
Default: modem control signals disabled
.TP
.B -s <datatype> | --send <datatype>
Send optional CID data to a client.
Where \fIdatatype\fR is:
.br
.IR cidlog :
sent when the client connects.
If the CID call log gets too big, it will not be sent.
.br
.IR cidinfo :
sent on each ring, to all clients,
gives the current ring count.
.br
Default: Optional CID DATA is not sent
.TP
.B -T <ttyspeed> | --ttyspeed <ttyspeed>
Set the tty port speed to one of: 19200, 9600, 4800
.br
Default: ttyspeed = 19200
.TP
.B -t <ttyport> | --ttyport <ttyport>
Modem device file, or serial port that provides Caller ID information.
.br
Default: /dev/modem
.TP
.B -V | --version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B -v <1-9> | --verbose <1-9>
Verbose mode. Send information into the logfile and display information
for the -D  option.  Set a higher number for more information.
Do not use level 9 unless there is a problem in poll().  It grows the
logfile very fast.
.br
To debug, try: verbose = 3
.br
Default: verbose = 1
.TP
.B -B <file> | --whitelist <file>
Whitelist file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/ncidd.whitelist
.TP
.B --osx-launchd
This option is only for OSX when using launchd to control ncidd.  It
prevents \fBncidd\fR from entering daemon mode.  It is like debug
mode, but nothing is printed to the screen.
.PD
.SH CONFIGURATION
The ncidd.conf(5) file is used to set options.
The syntax of the ncidd.conf(5) file is discussed separately,
and should be consulted for detailed reference information.
.PP
The ncidd.alias(5) file is used to create aliases.
The syntax of the ncidd.alias(5) file is discussed separately,
and should be consulted for detailed reference information.
.SH "DATA LINE FORMAT EXAMPLES"
These are five examples of the three types of lines sent to
.I NCID
clients. The first field is line identifier.
.PP
The \fICID:\fR line gives the CID information of the current call.
.PP
The \fICIDLOG:\fR line gives the CID information of a line in the
CID log file.
.PP
The \fIMSG:\fR line gives messages from the server.
.PP
The \fIMSGLOG:\fR line gives a message logged in the CID log file.
.PP
The \fICIDINFO:\fR line gives a line number and ring count from the server.
The ring count starts at 1 and increases until ringing ends,
at which time a count of 0 is sent.
The line number default is 1, Distinctive Ring will add one of the
letters: A B C D to indicate the virtual line called.
Expect additional name/values pairs to be added in the future.
.PP
The \fICID:\fR
and \fICIDLOG:\fR lines are identical,
with data stored as name and value pairs.
Clients should always locate the line identifier,
and then scan for a field name and get its value.
It's possible that additional name/value pairs may be added in the future.
.PP
The \fIMSG:\fR
and \fIMSGLOG:\fR lines are identical,
.PP
.nf
CID: *DATE*mmddyyyy*TIME*hhmm*NMBR*number*MESG*NONE*NAME*name*
CIDLOG: *DATE*mmddyyyy*TIME*hhmm*NMBR*number*MESG*NONE*NAME*name*
CIDINFO: *LINE*line indicator*RING*ringcount*TIME*hh:mm:ss*
MSG: Too many clients connected: 15
MSGLOG: Too many clients connected: 15
CIDOUT: *DATE*mmddyyyy*TIME*hhmm*NMBR*number*MESG*NONE*NAME*NONAME*
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/ncid/ncidd.blacklist
Blacklist file
.TP
.B /etc/ncid/ncidd.conf
Configuration file
.TP
.B /var/run/ncidd.pid
PID file
.TP
.B /var/log/cidcall.log
Contains CID and MSG lines
.TP
.B /var/log/ciddata.log
Contains the output from the modem, device or gateway
.TP
.B /var/log/ncidd.log
Server log file.  Contents controlled by verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
    Return Code    Meaning
    -----------    -------
         0         Successful
      -100         Usage
      -101         Invalid port number
      -102         TTY lockfile exists
      -103         Unable to set modem for Caller ID
      -104         Configuration file error
      -105         No modem found
      -106         Invalid data type.
      -107         Invalid number
      -108         Invalid tty port speed [set in config file]
      -109         Alias file error
      -110         PID file already exists
      -111         Cannot init TTY
      -112         Serial device error
      -113         string too long
      -114         Blacklist or whitelist file error
        -?         System error
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
sip2ncid.8, ncid2ncid.1, ncidrotate.1, yac2ncid.1, wc2ncid.1
ncid.1, ncidtools.1, lcdncid.1,
ncidd.conf.5, ncidd.alias.5, ncidd.blacklist.5, ncidd.whitelist.5
