.\" %W% %G%
.TH RN2NCID.CONF 5
.SH NAME
.B rn2ncid.conf
- rn2ncid configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrn2ncid.conf\fR file contains the configuration information for
\fIrn2ncid\fR.
.PP
The \fIrn2ncid.conf\fR file understands 3 types of lines:
.TP
.B blank line
ignored
.TP
.B comment line, beginning with '#'
ignored
.TP
.B VARIABLE = VALUE
VALUE can contain spaces if it is between quotes.
.PP
See \fIrn2ncid.conf\fR for all default values.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B verbose = \fIlevel\fR
Level is in the range 1-9. Not all verbose levels are used.
.TP
.B ncidaddr = \fIhost address\fR
The NCID server host address can be an IP address or a resolvable host name.
.TP
.B ncidport = \fIport\fR
The NCID server port number.
.TP
.B delay = \fIseconds\fR
If the connection to the NCID server is lost, this specifies the number
of seconds between reconnection attempts.
.TP
.B cellport = \fIport\fR
The listen port as specified in the Remote Notifier application.
.TP
.B reject = \fIfrom address[,from address][,from address]...\fR
SMS and MMS messages usually have a 'from' address and depending on 
the carrier this could be a number or an email address. Specify a comma
separated list of addresses that will NOT be transmitted by the NCID 
server to all listening NCID clients. This is used to prevent endless 
loops which could result in excessively high data or text charges
by your cell phone carrier.
.PP
Remote Notifier sends the 'from' address in its 'data' (fifth) field.
See NOTES below.
.PP
An example of an endless loop would be:
.RS 5
.IP - 3
cell phone gets SMS
.IP - 3
Remote Notifier sends out the SMS
.IP - 3
rn2ncid gets the SMS and sends it to the NCID server as 'MSG'
.IP - 3
the ncid-page module gets this 'MSG' and forwards it back to the cell phone
.IP - 3
cell phone gets the 'MSG' as an SMS
.IP - 3
cycle repeats forever
.RE
.PP
To prevent this endless loop, suppose you have ncid-page.conf
configured to send SMS messages to your cell 'from' your email
address of: johndoe@yahoo.com
.PP
.PP
You might want to set 'reject' to be:
.PP
.PP
.RS 3
reject = johndoe@yahoo.com
.RE
.SH NOTES
Remote Notifier sends six pieces of information:
.RS 5
.IP - 3
(1) version (e.g., 'v2')
.IP - 3
(2) unique device id in hex
.IP - 3
(3) unique notification id in hex
.IP - 3
(4) event type (BATTERY, PING, SMS, etc.)
.IP - 3
(5) data (terse information)
.IP - 3
(6) event contents (verbose free-form text, can be multi-line)
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Set the NCID server IP address:
.PP
.RS 3
ncidaddr = 192.168.1.20
.RE
.PP
Set the Remote Notifier listen port
.PP
.RS 3
cellport = 10600
.RE
.PP
Reject SMS/MMS messages to manage text blocking
.PP
.RS 3
reject = 9999
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
rn2ncid.1
