.\" %W% %G%
.TH SIP2NCID 8
.SH NAME
.B sip2ncid
- Inject CID info into ncidd by snooping SIP invites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sip2ncid
[options]
.PP
.I Options:
.PP
.nf
[-C <filename>      | --config <filename>]
[-D                 | --debug]
[-h                 | --help]
[-i <interface>     | --interface <interface>]
[-l                 | --list]
[-L <filename>      | --logfile <filename>]
[-n <[host][:port]> | --ncid <[host][:port>]
[-P <filename>      | --pidfile <filename>]
[-r <dumpfile>      | --readfile <dumpfile>]
[-s <[host][:port]> | --sip <[host][:port]>]
[-T                 | --testall]
[-t                 | --testudp]
[-u                 | --usage]
[-V                 | --version]
[-v <1-9>           | --verbose <1-9>]
[-W <1/0>           | --warn <1/0>]
[-w <dumpfile>      | --writefile <dumpfile>]
[--osx-launchd]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Snoops SIP Invites via libpcap and injects the caller id information
found to the NCID server specified.  Snoops only udp traffic on the
specified SIP host and port.
.PP
The log file is \fI/var/log/sip2ncid.log\fR.
.PP
If a pid file is given, usually \fI/var/run/sip2ncid.pid\fR, then
a pid file used to store the process ID.
.PP
The configuration file for \fIsip2ncid\fR is /etc/ncid/sip2ncid.conf.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -C <filename> | --config <filename>
Configuration file.
.br
Default: /etc/ncid/sip2ncid.conf
.TP
.B -D | --debug
Debug mode, \fIsip2ncid\fR stays attached to the terminal.
.TP
.B -h | --help
Prints this help
.TP
.B -i <interface> | --interface=<interface>
Specifies the network interface to snoop on.  If this is not specified
then libpcap will pick a network interface.  This will generally be
the first Ethernet interface found.
.TP
.B -l | --listdevs
Returns a list of all network device names that can be used.
.TP
.B -L <filename> | --logfile=<filename>
Specifies the logfile name to use.  The logfile must exist before it is used.
.br
Default log filename: /var/log/sip2ncid.log
.TP
.B -n <[host][:port]> | --ncid=<[host][:port]>
Specifies the NCID server to connect to.  Port may be specified by
suffixing the hostname with <:port>, or if you only want to change the
port, just <:port>.  By default it will connect to port 3333 on
"127.0.0.1".
.TP
.B -P <filename> | --pidfile=<filename>
Specifies the pidfile name to write.
Set to \fI/var/run/ncidd.pid\fR in a rc or init script when used as a service.
The program will still run if it does not have permission to write a pidfile.
There is no default.  If pidfile is not set, no pid file will be used.
.TP
.B -r <dumpfile> | --readfile <dumpfile>
Read packets from a libpcap capture file instead of the network.
This also sets the testudp option, verbose to level 3, and no filter
is applied.  Mostly only useful for development and debug purposes.
.TP
.B -s <[host][:port]> | --sip=<[host][:port]>
Specifies the hostname of the SIP device to snoop.  You may also specify
the UDP port by suffixing the hostname with :<port>, or if no hostname
is wanted, just <:port>.  If you do not specify a host, it defaults to
the network interface.  If you do not specify a port, it defaults to
<5061> (Vonage default).  Other Vonage ports are 5060 and 10000.  The
new Vonage default appears to be <10000>.
.TP
.B -T | --testall
Test for all packets.  This option is used to check for IP packets
without starting the NCID server.  It will display a packet count
and the packet type.  It will not send any CID data to NCID.
It also sets the debug option.
.TP
.B -t | --testudp
Test for SIP packets.  This option is used to check if SIP packets
exist without starting the NCID server.  It will display the Caller
ID line generated when a call comes in, and a CANCEL line if cancel
was generated.  It will not send any CID data to NCID.
It also sets the debug option.
.B -u | --usage
Prints this help
.TP
.B -V | --version
Displays the version
.TP
.B -v <1-9> | --verbose <1-9>
Verbose mode. Send information into the logfile and display information
for the -D  option.  Set a higher number for more information.
Try LEVEL3 when having a problem.
.br
To debug, try: verbose = 3
.br
Default: verbose = 1
.TP
.B -W <0/1> | --warn <0/1>
Send 'No SIP packets' or 'SIP packets returned' messages to clients
.br
Default: warn = 0
.TP
.B -w <dumpfile> | --writefile <dumpfile>
Write packets to a libpcap capture file.
This also sets the debug option, verbose to level 3, and no filter
is applied.  Mostly only useful for development and debug purposes.
.TP
.B --osx-launchd
This option is only for OSX when using launchd to control ncidd.  It
prevents \fBncidd\fR from entering daemon mode.  It is like debug
mode, but nothing is printed to the screen.
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/sip2ncid.conf
.br
/var/run/sip2ncid.pid
.br
/var/log/sip2ncid.log
.SH MESSAGES FORMAT
.nf
CALL: ###DATE<MMDDHHMM>...LINE<####>...NMBR<###########>...NAME<words>+++
CALLINFO: ###CANCEL...NMBR<###########>...DATE<MMDDHHMM+++
CALLINFO: ###BYE...NMBR<###########>...DATE<MMDDHHMM>+++
.fi
.SS Example
.nf
CALL: ###DATE05311233...LINE1122...NMBR13215551212...NAMEBig John+++
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# run sip2ncid as root and view status and SIP packets:
sip2ncid -Dv3

# run sip2ncid as root and list all network device names:
sip2ncid --listdevs

# run sip2ncid as root in test mode to look for SIP packets.
sip2ncid --testudp

# run sip2ncid as root in test mode to look for any packets.
sip2ncid --testall
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
    Return Code    Meaning
    -----------    -------
         0         Successful
      -100         Usage
      -101         Invalid port number
      -104         Configuration file error
      -107         Invalid number
      -110         PID file already exists
        -?         System error
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
sip2ncid.conf.5 ncidd.8, ncidd.conf.5 ncidd.alias.5
