.\" %W% %G%
.TH YAC2NCID 1
.SH NAME
.B yac2ncid
- YAC server to NCID server gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yac2ncid
[-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B YAC2NCID
acts as a YAC client, listens to the CID information from a YAC server
and sends it to the NCID server.  The server then sends the CID
information to the  NCID clients.
.PP
It is important to understand that to run YAC server with NCID
clients you must run YAC2NCID gateway as well as NCID server.
.PP
The configuration file for \fIyac2ncid\fR is \fI/etc/ncid/yac2ncid.conf\fR.
It may be located in same directory as the script, or in the
\fIetc\fR directory, or in NCID default configuration directory.
Read the comments in the config file for more details.
.PP
.B YAC2NCID
can run on any system, but normally it is run on same box as the NCID server.
If it is not run on the same box as the NCID server, you must configure
the server IP address in the configuration file.
.PP
Configure the YAC server with IP address of the box running
.BR YAC2NCID .
.PP
.B YAC2NCID
relies on netcat binary (nc). As there are multiple implementations of
this binary in existence, the script will try to auto detect the options
to use. If script is unable to properly detect the version of nc, set
NETCAT_TYPE to CUSTOM in the config file and set custom parameters to
match your version.
.PP
There is also a client output module called \fIncid-yac\fR.  It sends
the NCID CID information to YAC clients.
.PD
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.PD
.PD
.SH REQUIRED PROGRAMS
netcat: /usr/bin/nc
.SH FILES
/etc/ncid/yac2ncid.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
yac2ncid.conf.5, ncidd.8, ncidd.conf.5, ncidd.alias.5, ncidmodules.1
